{"prompt": "What is the name of the Chancellor of HSTU?", "completion": "Chancellor Of The University
Md. Shahabuddin Chuppu (Honorable President) The Peoples Republic Of Bangladesh"}
{"prompt": "Who is the Vice Chancellor of HSTU, and how can I contact them?", "completion": "Vice Chancellor of HSTU
Prof. Dr. M. Kamruzzaman, Vice Chancellor vice-chancellor@hstu.ac.bd"}
{"prompt": "Could you provide the contact information for the Registrar of HSTU?", "completion": "Registrar
Prof. Dr. Md. Saifur Rahman Registrar (Additional Charge), HSTU +8801713163315 +88-0531-61355(office) registrar@hstu.ac.bd"}
{"prompt": "Who are the Deans of Faculties at HSTU?", "completion": "Deans Of Faculties

Prof. Dr. Fahima Khanom - Faculty of Post Graduate +8801715650669
Prof. Dr. Bidhan Chandra Halder - Faculty of Agriculture +8801715057495
Prof. Md. Mehedi Islam - Faculty of Computer Science & Engineering +8801716239606
Prof. Rafia Akhtar - Faculty of Business Studies +8801727282204
Prof. Dr. Md. Mofizul Islam - Faculty of Engineering +8801712554917
Prof. Dr. Imran Parvez - Faculty of Fisheries +8801914503031
Prof. Dr. Ummay Salma - Faculty of Veterinary & Animal Science +8801727696043
Prof. Dr. Md. Mamunur Rashid - Faculty of Science +8801716994878
Prof. Dr. Md. Golam Rabbani - Faculty of Social Science and Humanities +8801717226779"}
{"prompt": "Who is the Proctor of HSTU?", "completion": "Proctor
Prof. Dr. Md. Mamunur Rashid +8801716994878"}
{"prompt": "What postgraduate programs does HSTU offer?", "completion": "Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) offers postgraduate programs through the Faculty of Postgraduate Studies. These programs include Master of Science (MS), Master of Business Administration (MBA), and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees. The MS degrees are available in various disciplines such as Agronomy, Horticulture, Soil Science, Entomology, Plant Pathology, Genetics & Plant Breeding, Biotechnology, and more. MBA degrees are offered in Management, Finance and Banking, Marketing, and Accounting. Additionally, the university offers an MA degree in English. The postgraduate programs at HSTU are designed to provide students with advanced knowledge and research opportunities in their chosen fields."}
{"prompt": "What are the credit requirements for the Master of Science (MS) degree at HSTU?", "completion": "The Master of Science (MS) degree at Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) requires a total of 40 credits. Among these, 24 credits are dedicated to coursework, while the remaining 16 credits are allocated for the thesis. The coursework covers a range of subjects depending on the chosen discipline, and the thesis allows students to conduct independent research under the guidance of experienced faculty members. The MS program aims to equip students with advanced knowledge and skills in their respective fields and prepare them for careers in research, academia, or industry."}
{"prompt": "What is the medium of instruction for postgraduate programs at HSTU?", "completion": "The medium of instruction for postgraduate programs at Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) is English. All classes, lectures, course materials, and assessments are conducted in English to facilitate international communication and provide students with proficiency in the global lingua franca. The usage of English as the medium of instruction enhances students' language skills and prepares them for engaging in research and academic collaborations at the global level."}
{"prompt": "Which disciplines offer Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees at HSTU?", "completion": "Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) offers Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in several disciplines through its Ph.D. ordinance. The disciplines that offer Ph.D. degrees include Agronomy, Soil Science, Plant Pathology, Horticulture, Agroforestry, Entomology, Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Chemistry, Statistics, Microbiology, Animal Science, and Crop Physiology & Ecology. Pursuing a Ph.D. at HSTU provides students with the opportunity to conduct in-depth research and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in their respective fields."}
{"prompt": "What are the admission requirements for the Master of Business Administration (MBA) program at HSTU?", "completion": "To be eligible for admission to the Master of Business Administration (MBA) program at Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU), candidates must fulfill certain requirements. Generally, candidates should have a bachelor's degree in a relevant discipline from a recognized university with a satisfactory academic record. Additionally, candidates may need to sit for an admission test that assesses their knowledge in business-related subjects and skills relevant to management. The MBA program aims to equip students with managerial and leadership capabilities to excel in the corporate world and make valuable contributions to the business sector."}
{"prompt": "Can you provide information about the credit distribution for the Master of Science (MS) program at HSTU?", "completion": "The Master of Science (MS) program at Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) follows a specific credit distribution. The total credit requirement for the MS program is 40, which includes 24 credits dedicated to coursework and 16 credits allocated for the thesis. The coursework covers a comprehensive range of subjects depending on the discipline, providing students with a strong theoretical foundation and practical knowledge. The thesis component allows students to conduct independent research under the guidance of experienced faculty members, giving them an opportunity to contribute to the existing body of knowledge in their chosen field."}
{"prompt": "What are the areas of specialization available for the Master of Science (MS) program at HSTU?", "completion": "Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) offers a diverse range of areas of specialization for the Master of Science (MS) program. Some of the prominent disciplines for which MS degrees are available include Agronomy, Horticulture, Soil Science, Entomology, Plant Pathology, Genetics & Plant Breeding, Biotechnology, Crop Physiology & Ecology, Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Chemistry, Agroforestry, Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Pathology, Parasitology, Poultry Science, Anatomy, Genetics & Animal Breeding, Medicine, Physiology, Pharmacology, General Animal Science & Nutrition, Fisheries Biology & Genetics, Fisheries Management, Fisheries Technology, Aquaculture, Agricultural & Industrial Engineering, Food Processing & Preservation, Food Engineering & Technology, Food Science & Nutrition, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Statistics, Computer Science and Engineering, and Electronics and Communication Engineering. The wide range of specializations allows students to pursue their academic and research interests in various scientific and technological domains."}
{"prompt": "What is the duration of the Master of Arts (MA) program at HSTU?", "completion": "The Master of Arts (MA) program at Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) has a total duration of 5 semesters. During this period, students are required to complete a total of 40 credits, with 24 credits dedicated to coursework and 16 credits allocated for the thesis. The MA program in English is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the English language, literature, and related fields. The coursework covers various aspects of English literature, linguistics, and cultural studies, while the thesis allows students to conduct independent research in their chosen area of interest."}
{"prompt": "How does pursuing a Ph.D. at HSTU contribute to research advancements?", "completion": "Pursuing a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree at Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) provides students with a unique opportunity to contribute to research advancements in their respective fields. By engaging in in-depth research under the guidance of experienced faculty members, Ph.D. students can address critical research questions, explore innovative solutions, and make significant contributions to the existing body of knowledge. The interdisciplinary approach at HSTU fosters collaborations and knowledge exchange among researchers from diverse fields, leading to holistic and comprehensive research outcomes. Moreover, the university's emphasis on research excellence and innovation motivates Ph.D. students to push the boundaries of knowledge and create impactful research outputs that can benefit society and the scientific community at large."}
{"prompt": "Can you elaborate on the research opportunities available for postgraduate students at HSTU?", "completion": "Hajee Mohammad Danesh Science and Technology University (HSTU) offers abundant research opportunities for postgraduate students. Through the Faculty of Postgraduate Studies, students pursuing Master of Science (MS), Master of Business Administration (MBA), and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees can engage in cutting-edge research across various disciplines. Postgraduate students have access to state-of-the-art research facilities and laboratories, enabling them to conduct experiments, analyze data, and explore new areas of study. The university encourages interdisciplinary research, allowing students to collaborate with experts from different fields and address complex challenges from multiple perspectives. Research projects at HSTU often focus on addressing real-world issues and contributing to the sustainable development of the country and beyond. With the guidance of experienced faculty members and access to vast academic resources, postgraduate students at HSTU can make valuable contributions to scientific knowledge and become future leaders in their respective fields."}
{"prompt": "What is the role of IQAC at HSTU?", "completion": "The role of IQAC at HSTU is to facilitate the review of quality standards and the quality of teaching and learning in each program by ensuring a participatory curriculum design and review process."}
{"prompt": "When did IT-Cell at HSTU start its operation?", "completion": "IT-Cell at HSTU started its operation on 2nd May 2016. It consists of professional software engineers, network engineers, and well-trained technicians."}
{"prompt": "What are the benefits of having institutional linkages?", "completion": "Having institutional linkages with other academic institutions, research organizations, and industries ensures a multi-disciplinary approach to knowledge production at HSTU."}
{"prompt": "Who is the coordinator of HSTU IT-Cell?", "completion": "Prof. Md. Mehedi Islam is the coordinator of HSTU IT-Cell. He supervises the IT-Cell team and acknowledges their potential to accomplish duties professionally."}
{"prompt": "How does IQAC facilitate the accreditation process?", "completion": "IQAC of HSTU facilitates the accreditation process at both institutional as well as program level to ensure the quality and standards of education at the university."}
{"prompt": "What is the purpose of the qualifications framework at HSTU?", "completion": "The purpose of the qualifications framework at HSTU is to be developed for each program by an effective governance mechanism, ensuring the appropriate qualifications for students."}
{"prompt": "Who are the members of the programmer team at IT-Cell?", "completion": "The programmer team at IT-Cell includes Md. Walid Islam, Md. Abu Hena Mostofa Kamal, Md. Atiqur Rahman, and Md. Rashedul Islam."}
{"prompt": "What is the role of IT-Cell at HSTU?", "completion": "IT-Cell at HSTU is responsible for automating day-to-day operations and providing cutting-edge infrastructure and technological solutions to the university."}
{"prompt": "What are the qualifications of Prof. Md. Mehedi Islam?", "completion": "Prof. Md. Mehedi Islam is the coordinator of IT-Cell at HSTU, and he observes strong potential in the team members, ensuring cutting-edge infrastructure and technological solutions."}
{"prompt": "Who is responsible for telephone operations at HSTU?", "completion": "Md. Kamrul Huda is responsible for telephone operations at HSTU and serves as the telephone operator."}
{"prompt": "What is the specialization of Engr. Md. Saikat Ali?", "completion": "Engr. Md. Saikat Ali specializes as a Network Engineer at IT-Cell, HSTU."}
{"prompt": "What is the email address of Md. Abu Hena Mostofa Kamal?", "completion": "Md. Abu Hena Mostofa Kamal can be contacted via email at mostofa.itcell@hstu.ac.bd."}
{"prompt": "What are the key responsibilities of IQAC at HSTU?", "completion": "The key responsibilities of IQAC at HSTU include facilitating the review of quality standards, ensuring participatory curriculum design, and managing the accreditation process."}
{"prompt": "What is the primary focus of HSTU's IT-Cell?", "completion": "The primary focus of HSTU's IT-Cell is to automate day-to-day operations and provide cutting-edge technological solutions to the university."}
{"prompt": "What is the email address of Md. Ahmadul Hoque?", "completion": "Md. Ahmadul Hoque can be contacted via email at ahmadul.itcell@hstu.ac.bd."}
{"prompt": "What are the main goals of IQAC at HSTU?", "completion": "The main goals of IQAC at HSTU are to review quality standards, improve teaching and learning, and facilitate the accreditation process."}
{"prompt": "Who is responsible for network maintenance at HSTU?", "completion": "Md. Zulfikar Rahman is responsible for network maintenance as a Network Technician/Hardware Technician at HSTU."}
{"prompt": "What is the specialization of Md. Tanvir Rahman?", "completion": "Md. Tanvir Rahman specializes as a Programmer at IT-Cell, HSTU."}
{"prompt": "What is the mobile number of Md. Atiqur Rahman?", "completion": "Md. Atiqur Rahman's mobile number is +8801711086080. He can be reached via email at atiqur.itcell@hstu.ac.bd."}
{"prompt": "What is the role of institutional linkages at HSTU?", "completion": "Institutional linkages at HSTU ensure a multi-disciplinary approach to knowledge production through collaborations with academic institutions, research organizations, and industries."}
{"prompt": "Who is responsible for computer programming at HSTU?", "completion": "Md. Atiqur Rahman and Md. Rashedul Islam are responsible for computer programming at HSTU as Computer Programmers."}
{"prompt": "What is the mobile number of Engr. Md. Saikat Ali?", "completion": "Engr. Md. Saikat Ali's mobile number is +8801717676689. He can be reached via email at saikat.ali@hstu.ac.bd."}
{"prompt": "What is the email address of Md. Atiqur Rahman?", "completion": "Md. Atiqur Rahman can be contacted via email at atiqur.itcell@hstu.ac.bd."}
{"prompt": "What is the specialization of Md. Walid Islam?", "completion": "Md. Walid Islam is a Senior Programmer at IT-Cell, HSTU."}
{"prompt": "What is the email address of Md. Zulfikar Rahman?", "completion": "Md. Zulfikar Rahman can be contacted via email at zulfikar_bce@yahoo.com."}
